Basic Variables
===============

Variables are key in Python, they keep data saved. Here is how we create variables:

    variable = contents
    

We first declare the variable name, and then add a “=”, then the actual variable contents.

Let’s say we want to create a variable called “Number” and add the data “15” to it. We would do:

    Number = 15
    

There we go!

Here are some variables that you will need to know:

    numbervar = 5
    floatvar = 15.3
    stringvar = "Hello, World!"
    booleanvar = True
    listvar = "String", True, 15
    

Note that:

Number variables can only be numbers _******without******_ numbers after the decimal point.

Float variables can only be numbers _******with******_ numbers after the decimal point.

String variables can only be text within quotation marks.

Boolean variables can only be True or False, without quotation marks.

List variables can be any variables put together, but have to be separated with commas.

Advanced Variables
------------------

### Concentation

There are some techniques to add variables together, like so:

    variable = 'Hello, ' + 'World!'
    

Now if we print this variable (print is the command that prints out the content in the brackets), like so:

    print(variable)
    

We get:

    Hello, World!
    

If two variables are the same data type (ex: string and string), we can put them together in two methods.

With commas, like so:

    'Hello, ', 'World!'
    

Or with plus signs.

    'Hello, ' + 'World'
    

But we can only use commas if they are different data types.

### Complications with numbers

This doesn’t work with numbers though, because using plus signs will add the two numbers together, calculate the sum.

Here, like so:

    5 + 6 # Output of 11
    5, 6 # Output of 56
    

### f-string

If I were to ask you to add the number 5 in between the string ‘HelloWorld’, you would most likely do:

    'Hello', 5, 'World'
    

Which would work ( Note that using the + sign wouldn’t work because text and numbers are two different data types), but we can do this more efficiently. Like so:

    f'Hello{5}World'
    

Adding an ‘f’ in front of the quotation marks will turn the string into an f-string. Which allows you to embed variables of any type in between curly brackets in a string.
