Operators
=========

Comparative operators
---------------------

Operators help you create code that makes decisions for you. We already know of the ‘=’ operator, we use it to define variables, it’s not used for much more.

If we want to check if a variable is equal to another variable, we use the ‘==’ variable, like so:

    var1 == var2
    

This will compare the two, and it’ll return if they are equal or not.

Here’s a better way of understanding it:

    var1 = "Text One"
    var2 = "Text Two"
    print(var1 == var2)
    

When running this, we get `False` , this is because var1 and var2 are _**not**_ equal.

But if we modify the variables like so:

    var1 = "Text One"
    var2 = "Text One"
    print(var1 == var2)
    

And we run it, we get `True` , this is because both var1 and var2 are the same, value wise.

Similarly, the operator “!=” does the complete opposite, when two variables are ********different******** , it will return True, but when they are the same, it’ll return _****False****_ .

Let’s quickly go through the rest:

When we want to check if a variable is smaller or larger than the other, we can use “<” or “>”. Like so:

    print(5 < 10) # This will return True
    print(5 < 0) # This will return False
    print(5 > 10) # This will return False
    print(5 > 0) # This will return True
    

Similarly, we can also use “>=” or “<=”. Which will do this:

    print(5 <= 10) # This will return True
    print(10 <= 10) # This will return True
    print(15 <= 10) # This will return False
    print(5 >= 10) # This will return False
    print(10 >= 10) # This will return True
    print(15 >= 10) # This will return True
    

OK next,

We can do basic math too, like so:

    print(5+5) # + : This is addition
    print(10-5) # - : This is substraction
    print(5*5) # * : This is multiplication
    print(5/5) # / : This is division ( It will return the remainders )
    print(5//5) # // : This is division ( It will not return the remainders )
    print(5%5) # % : This will do a "/" style division and return the remainder
    print(5**5) # ** : This will calculate the first number
    

Below is a simple script, predict the outcome of it:

    variable = 5
    variable + 5
    print(variable)
    

You might think the output is 10, because 5 + 5 is 10, which is true, but it’ll return 5.

Let me explain why.

Python runs a script line by line, so it’ll run “variable = 5” first, which stores the variable and its content.

Then it’ll run “variable + 5”, which will get the contents of the variable named “variable” and add 5, but it wont actually add 5 to the variable, it’ll just calculate it. To solve this we could change the script to this:

    variable = 5
    variable = variable + 5
    print(variable)
    

But that’s long, and we want to be fast, so we can do this:

    variable = 5
    variable += 5
    print(variable)
    

By using “+=”, we can tell Python to just calculate and directly save the output to the variable.

This is also applicable to subtraction too, like so:

    print(num+=5) # + : This is addition
    print(num-=5) # - : This is substraction
    

Ternary Operators
-----------------

Ternary Operators are super useful in Python, they let you create conditional outputs in one line.

This is the syntax: `[on_true] if [expression] else [on_false]`

The `[on_true]` variable represents the output when the `[expression]` is True, but the `[on_false]` variable represents the output if the `[expression]` is False.

So let’s say we want to get an output of “Yes” when our expression is True, and an output of “No” when our expression is False.

We would do this:

    print('Yes' if [expression] else 'No')
    

Now, we need to decide what our expression is, but it _****has****_ to have an output of True or False. Let’s use the `==` operator to compare 5 to 5.

    print('Yes' if 5==5 else 'No')
    

We get an output of `Yes` , because 5 is equal to 5, but if we alter the code to:

    print('Yes' if 5==4 else 'No')
    

We get an output of `No` , because 5 is not equal to 4, obviously.
