ADVANCED DATA TYPES
===================

We previously learned simple data types such as strings, integers, and floats, but they won’t do for larger Python projects.

In this course, we’ll learn advanced data types that’ll be extremely useful later on.

Strings (again)
---------------

A quick reminder that strings can be defined in many different ways, such as:

    NormalString = "normalstring"
    SingleQuotationMarks = 'singlequotationmarks'
    MultiLine = """multi
    line"""
    

Normal strings and Single quotation mark strings are extremely similar, but single quotation marks are a fraction of a second faster to interpret. But this will only realistically change your run time if you have a huge amount of string variables.

Lists
-----

We only mentioned lists in the first variable course, so here we go:

Lists are defined like so:

    listvariable = ['variable1', 'variable2', 'variable3']
    

Inside the square brackets, we have the variable we want to store inside the list. These variables don’t specifically need to be strings, they can be any type of variable. Here are some examples:

    list1 = [True, False] # Booleans
    list2 = [1, 0, 52, 39] # Integers
    list3 = [23.6, 6.3, 8.00009] # Floats
    list4 = [5+1, 2+53, 64-2] # Integers with operators
    

We can add variables to a list like so:

    listvariable = [True, 52, 6.2, False]
    listvariable.append('variable we want to add')
    print(listvariable) # This will return [True, 52, 6.2, False, 'variable we want to add']
    

To see what is in a list at a specific point, we can use this:

    listvariable = [True, 52, 6.2, False]
    print(listvariable[0]) # Returns: True
    print(listvariable[1]) # Returns: 52
    print(listvariable[2]) # Returns: 6.2
    print(listvariable[3]) # Returns: False
    

Remember, in Python, we start counting at **0** .

Tuples
------

Think of tuples as lists that hold a grudge against you, they can do everything a list can do, except they can’t change. This usually makes tuples faster to interpret when running code.

Instead of using square brackets `[]` to define them, we use parentheses `()` , like so:

    tuplevariable = (True, 52, 6.2, False)
    

Dictionaries
------------

Dictionaries are extremely useful when wanting to organise information.

We declare them like so:

    dictionaryvariable = {}
    

Then inside we put our ********keys******** and their respective ************values************ .

    dictionaryvariable = {
     "key1":"value1",
     "key2":"value1",
     "key3":"value1"
    }
    

Think of the ********keys******** as boxes with labels, and the content of that box are the ********keys******** inside. You can always have multiple values in a dictionary, like so:

    dictionaryvariable = {
     "key1":["value1", "value2", "value3"],
     "key2":["value1", "value2", "value3"],
     "key3":["value1", "value2", "value3"]
    }
    

Technically, we don’t have multiple variables per key, but we compact them into a list which is **********considered********** a single variable.

We don’t always have to create a dictionary in the ways presented before, we can always do like so:

    dictionaryvariable = dict()
    dictionaryvariable["key1"] = "value1"
    dictionaryvariable["key2"] = "value1"
    dictionaryvariable["key3"] = "value1"
    

That gives us the exact same result as:

    dictionaryvariable = {
     "key1":"value1",
     "key2":"value1",
     "key3":"value1"
    }
    

This technique isn’t useful when defining the start of dictionaries, but it is useful when adding information to a dictionary, like in this example sign up script:

    userdetails = dict()                    # Create the dictionary
    email = input('Enter your email: ')     # Let's input: contact@devkey.com
    name = input('Enter your name: ')       # Let's input: AN7
    userdetails[name] = email               # Create a new entry in the dictionary as the name as the key and the email as the value.
    print(userdetails)                      # Returns: {"AN7": "contact@devkey.com"}
