FILE HANDLING
=============

File handling is essential to data management scripts. Having variables saved in the script itself works, but doesn’t provide a whole lot of flexibility. The base function for file handling is:

    <varname> = open(<filename>, <mode>)

Let’s say we have a file named `msg.txt` and it contains:

    Hello,
    Is the meeting scheduled for 15:00 or 16:00?
    See you soon,
    Micheal

To open it, we would use:

    fil = open('msg.txt', <mode>)

Let’s discuss the different modes,

1.  **r:**  open an existing file for a read operation.
2.  **w:**  open an existing file for a write operation. If the file already contains some data then it will be overridden but if the file is not present then it creates the file as well.
3.  **a:**  open an existing file for append operation. It won’t override existing data.
4.  **r+:**  To read and write data into the file. The previous data in the file will be overridden.
5.  **w+:**  To write and read data. It will override existing data.
6.  **a+:**  To append and read data from the file. It won’t override existing data.

read
----

The `r` function can be used to read a file, like so:

    fil = open('msg.txt', 'r')
    print(fil.read())
    # We get:
    # Hello,
    # Is the meeting scheduled for 15:00 or 16:00?
    #
    # See you soon,
    # Micheal

_Remember to keep the mode in quotation marks._

The read function is super basic, and really only is used for one time reading. However it works very well in this use-case.

write
-----

The write function is practically the same as the `read` function, but only works to write, not read.

**BE CAREFUL, the following function will _**overwrite**_ your file.**

    fil = open('msg.txt', 'w')
    fil.write('Hello DevKey!')
    # The file will now read:
    # Hello DevKey!

To end this function, it is recommended that you ******close****** your file after editing it, like so:

    fil = open('msg.txt', 'w')
    fil.write('Hello DevKey!')
    file.close() # This terminates the resources that are managing the file

append
------

The append mode is similar to the `write` function, but instead of _**********overwriting**********_ it just adds text to a file.

Below is an example script:

    fil = open('msg.txt', 'a')
    fil.write("Helllo DevKey")
    fil.close()
    # The file now reads:
    # Hello,
    # Is the meeting scheduled for 15:00 or 16:00?
    #
    # See you soon,
    # Micheal
    # Hello DevKey!

We’ve now covered the basic modes, but the other modes (which are the basic ones, but more advanced) simply add the ability to do the opposite of the mode without having to open the file file again in a different mode.

Most of the scripts above can be simplified for readability so that this script:

    fil = open('msg.txt', 'w')
    fil.write('Hello DevKey!')
    file.close() # This terminates the resources that are managing the file

Would turn into this script:

    with open('msg.txt', 'w') as fil:
      fil.write('Hello DevKey!')
      fil.close()
